# King Abdullah Medical Complex Jeddah and Maternity and Children's Specialist Hospital optimize operations with InterSystems TrakCare MEUI Upgrade
URL: https://www.zawya.com/en/press-release/companies-news/king-abdullah-medical-complex-jeddah-and-maternity-and-childrens-specialist-hospital-optimize-operations-with-intersystems-trakcare-meui-upgrade-cjxel8rs
Published: 2025-02-14

King Abdullah Medical Complex Jeddah and Maternity and Children's Specialist Hospital optimize operations with InterSystems TrakCare MEUI Upgrade

GO

Advanced search

Social media

Social link for twitter Social link for facebook Social link for linkedin Social link for youtube

Home page> PRESS RELEASE> Companies News>King Abdullah Medical Co...

RELATED TOPICS

RELATED COMPANIES

> PHOTO

Successful digital health transformation needs comprehensive user adoption and the InterSystems TrakCare mobile enabled user interface (MEUI) is a key component to scaling adoption by extending device and care-setting choice with intuitive ease of use.

Jeddah, Saudi Arabia: InterSystems, a creative data technology provider dedicated to helping customers solve the most critical scalability, interoperability, and speed problems, are pleased to share that King Abdullah Medical Complex Jeddah (KAMCJ) and Maternity and Children's Specialist Hospital (MCSH) have upgraded their Electronic Medical Record (EMR) to the latest version of InterSystems TrakCare® unified health information system.

KAMCJ is a 500-bed hospital complex under the Ministry of Health that provides elective medical and surgical services combined with a state-of-the-art laboratory, trauma center and outpatient clinics serving North Jeddah. MCSH is a 300-bed hospital that provide healthcare services for women and all diseases related to women’s health by qualified, specialized, and highly professional doctors using the latest equipment and technologies through outpatient clinics, in addition to receiving all emergency cases in the emergency department.

The EMR upgrade is a major milestone in both facilities’ digital health transformation journey — that enhances patient care and streamlines their operations. Without comprehensive user adoption digital health transformations fail. The latest, easy-to-use TrakCare interface adds to the user’s choice of device and care-setting to further support the delivery of the highest levels of patient-focused, quality, and safety outcomes. At the same time, the hospitals unlocked new value from their EMRs by adopting unified modules for the intensive care unit, anesthesia, and maternity. Using a unified EMR ensures information captured once is available immediately to cross-departmental authorized users to avoid data silos. They also upgraded and added blood bank services to their laboratory information management system (LIMS) that uses InterSystems TrakCare Laboratory Enterprise®.

The upgrade was smooth and successful because KAMCJ and MSCH multi-disciplined teams engaged stakeholders, communicated the leadership vision for the next generation of care services, and professionally executed a user training program supported by a close partnership with InterSystems implementation team.

“Our success is driven by continuous growth and collaboration at all levels,” said Maha Hetaimish, Health Application Manager, King Abdullah Medical Complex Jeddah. “We are pro