Solventum™ 360 Encompass™ System platform 

 

• Health Information management system integrating computer-assisted coding, clinical   
 
documentation improvement, quality metrics, auditing and analytics, in one platform.

• From capture to code improving workflows with accurate, compliant data that  
 
 
 
impacts real-time patient care.

• Powered by Solventum's grouper and reimbursement logic, combined with NLP and  
 
 
Solventum's advanced clinical intelligence.

• SolventumTM 360 EncompassTM Computer-Assisted Coding (CAC) -  
 
 
 
 
 
Computer -assisted and automated workflows for inpatient and outpatient.

• SolventumTM 360 EncompassTM Clinical Documentation Integrity (CDI) -  
 
 
 
 
Computer-assisted and automated CDI workflows.

• SolventumTM 360 EncompassTM Audit Expert System - Inpatient PreView review and  
 
 
code auditing workflows.

• SolventumTM 360 EncompassTM Autonomous Coding System – Zero-touch, fully  
 
 
 
automated coding workflow for qualifying visits.

A decade of 
innovation. A future 
of transformation. 

For more than 10 years, hospitals used 360E 
to automate coding workflows, using our 
expert guided artificial intelligence (Al) to 
realize both cost and time saving benefits. 

The Solventum 360 Encompass platform 
includes comprehensive workflows and 
automation for coding, CDI and audit 
solutions, as well as integration with 
computer-assisted physician documentation 
(CAPD) workflows. 

Coding and CDI teams can adapt to new 
technologies, monitor performance, build 
coding and CDI competencies, and improve 
business processes with the aid 
of Solventum's consulting services. 

The quest to reduce costs while 
protecting quality 

Now more than ever, hospitals need a technically 
advanced and tightly integrated revenue cycle 
management system. It's the best foot forward 
against shifting reimbursements, qualified coder 
shortages and changing government regulations. 
So, how can hospitals simultaneously reduce 
costs, remain compliant and protect - or even 
enhance - the quality of patient care? 

With the introduction of computer-assisted 
coding in 2012, Solventum has built 
a robust platform covering key layers of the 
revenue cycle business. As our client's technology 
needs progress, so does Solventum 360 
Encompass. Today, the platform is an evolving 
collection of revenue cycle management modules 
that work together to help health care 
organizations stay in control of cost, compliance 
and quality. Modules include: 


 

Coding and CDI teams: A united front 

Once siloed and unaligned, coding and CDI teams are now a 
force to be reckoned with. Working concurrently in one 
system, Solventum 360 Encompass eliminates silos, reduces 
duplication and fosters collaboration and insights across care 
settings. Coders can rely on Solventum 360 Encompass for 
coding excellence and top features for optimal 
auto-suggestions. CDI staff can count on the system to 
surface quality indicators to help drive complete and accurate 
clinical documentation.

Gearing up for an autonomous experience 
with confidence 

When organizations are ready for further coding automation, 
Solventum is ready to help. Our technology can take codes 
into a more autonomous experience by auto-dropping user's 
historically accurate and confident auto-suggested codes into 
the Solventum Coding and Reimbursement System (CRS) 
coding pane for final code set completion. This effectively 
frees up coders' time to focus on complex codes, shifting 
focus away from repetitive, simple coding tasks. 

Close the gaps with Solventum consulting 
services 

Our Solventum technology is backed by a team of consultants 
with specialized credentials and decades of health care 
experience. Our consultants provide analysis and data 
informed recommendations, in addition to personalized 
support, education, training, workflow redesign and 
supplemental staffing. 

On premise or in the cloud 

Utilizing the power of the Solventum Cloud Platform, all the 
same features available for Solventum 360 Encompass 
on-premises can now be delivered in the cloud. The agility 
offered by cloud solutions can help organizations shift focus 
away from time consuming IT maintenance and delivery, and 
more on business outcomes. Organizations can decrease 
total cost of ownership in areas such as hardware, software, 
maintenance and support. This secure and flexible option is 
integrated with other Solventum solutions. 

Powerful components 

Solventum develops features and 
functionality that can be used across 
the Solventum 360 Encompass 
platform, based on licensing. These 
features expand the confines of 
traditional roles and locations, bringing 
teams together to work from one 
source, in one common system. Some 
of these expanded features and 
capabilities include: 

•  Expert clinical content-driven Al

•  Proven grouping and  
 
 
 
reimbursement methodologies 

•  Auto-suggested coding and CDI  
 
workflows 

•  Worklist prioritization for both CDI  
 
and coding teams 

• 
Concurrent coding to establish a  
 
working diagnosis related group 

 
(DRG) and continue to update the  
 
code set through final coding 

•  Custom edits to create unique   
 
edits that fit every need

•  Solventum Code Confidence,  
 
 
auto-drops historically high  
 
 
precision auto suggested codes   
 
into Solventum CRS 

•  Solventum Advanced CDI  
 
 
Prioritization, automated and  
 
 
customized logic to identify high  
 
priority cases and opportunities

•  360 Encompass Systems identifies  
 
potential quality flags concurrently  
 
helping organizations ensure  
 
 
accurate value-based care.

Solventum
Building 20, 3rd floor, 
Dubai Internet City, 
PO Box 500599 
Dubai, United Arab Emirate

 
 
 

©Solventum 2024. Solventum, the S logo and other trademarks are trademarks of Solventum or 
its affiliates. 3M, the 3M logo and other 3M owned and/or licensed trademarks are trademarks 
of 3M Company. Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Contact Us

For more information on how Solventum solutions can assist your organization, email 
info.his-mea@solventum.com or visit us online: www.solventum.com

