Solventum™ Codefinder™ Software
Intuitive coding and
decision support

Designed for expert and novice coders alike,
the SolventumTM CodefinderTM Software 
offers more of everything you expect from 
the world’s most popular coding software. 

With Solventum experts delivering consistent 
regulatory updates and clients providing 
continuous feedback, Codefinder works the 
way coders work, with all the latest features 
to address regulatory requirements and 
operational demands.

With easy-to-use menus, references and 
prompts, Solventum Codefinder gives 
coders the functionality they need to code 
accurately and work productively.
 

• Provides a sophisticated, easy-to-learn  
 
solution for accurate,
 
complete and compliant coding.
• Easily deployed as a web-based
 
application.
• Delivers simplified ICD-10-AM, ACHI   
 
and SBS coding via coding pathways
 
utilising sophisticated expert decision  
 
logic.

Keeping up with the ever-changing rules and regulations of health care is difficult. Understanding and managing regulatory 
updates, classification guidelines, payment methodologies and the increasing volume of data in the EMR are formidable 
challenges.

In addition, the work to increase the integrity of clinical documentation and the increased specificity required for health 
data use have also become part of the coding landscape, adding to the complexity facing HIM professionals. These 
responsibilities have become key factors in the decision-making processes that can affect every level of a healthcare 
organisation.

The challenge

Decisions made to improve quality throughout the hospital are based largely on data supplied by the HIM department. New 
technology and changing regulations have not altered the fact that medical record coding provides the basic foundation of 
every organisation’s data. Today most hospitals depend on the functionality and reliability of Solventum’s coding software 
to build that foundation.

Solventum Codefinder is a sophisticated yet easy-to-use suite of tools that supports coders with powerful coding logic, 
giving them the confidence by meeting their needs for accuracy and efficiency.

The software is designed to provide appropriate support for novice to expert level coders. It guides the coder through the 
coding process, covering the full range of situations from complex diabetes scenarios to repetitive or typical patient 
encounters. At any time, the coder can view the selection of online references to clarify the situation and make appropriate 
decisions.

The Solventum solution 


Today’s shortage of qualified coders requires 
organisations to identify ways to maintain coding 
accuracy and consistency. Solventum Codefinder gives 
coders the support and confidence they need to follow 
correct coding rules and guidelines.

The following references are integrated into the software 
right where coders need them to expedite the coding 
process:
• ICD-10-AM/ACHI Codebook
•  Australian Coding Standards
•  National Coding Advice
•  Australian Refined Diagnosis related Groups
•  Elsevier's Anatomy Plates
•  SBS Alphabetical Index
•  SBS Coding Standards
•  SBS Summary of Changes

 

With Solventum Codefinder, coders have a flexible tool that supports greater productivity allowing direct coding 
for routine procedures yet employing consistent rules and expert logic to help address unique or complex coding 
issues. For all of these reasons, Solventum will continue to use this flagship coding and reimbursement solution as 
the coding engine for the Solventum™ 360 Encompass™ System as it begins being deployed in the region.

 

Code editing is integrated seamlessly so that the codes assigned are continuously edited for quality. Codefinder edits are
driven by our hosted Edit Engine and are based on the ICD-10-AM/ACHI coding classification, Saudi Billing System (SBS) Classification, 
National Coding Advice, Australian Coding Standards and the AR-DRG grouper manual. In addition, there are Propriety Edits based on 
Solventum Intellectual Property. The Edits provide real time on-screen feedback to coders to ensure compliance to standards and 
advice. Errors corrected at the time of coding enhance the quality of the coding and prevent the record needing to be retrieved at a later 
date for review and correction.

Edits where and when you need them 

Solventum delivering coder 
confidence 
For over 30 years, Solventum has been a leader in coding and 
reimbursement solutions for Australian and New Zealand 
organisations and has spent over a decade working with other 
clients in the region. Let our expertise help you stay compliant and 
efficient. With Solventum Codefinder Software your coders can:

Solventum Works closely with: 
• Access an integrated ICD-10-AM code book from  
 
within the coding software
• Receive estimated reimbursement values

 
Solventum: The coding experts 

•  Solventum™ Codefinder™ Software-Helps you manage the complex rules and terminology found in mandated rules,
 
standards and guidelines.

•  Solventum Grouping Software-Provides accurate AR-DRG grouping capabilities for national and state-based reimbursement  
 
 
methodologies. DRGs are automatically computed during coding to help improve coder productivity, and multiple
 
DRG versions can be calculated simultaneously.

•  Reimbursement can be calculated including funding adjustments based on current requirements.

•  Hospital Acquired Complications are flagged.

Powerful components 

Solventum
Building 20, 3rd floor, 
Dubai Internet City, 
PO Box 500599 
Dubai, United Arab Emirate

 
 

©Solventum 2024. Solventum, the S logo and other trademarks are trademarks of Solventum or 
its affiliates. 3M, the 3M logo and other 3M owned and/or licensed trademarks are trademarks 
of 3M Company. Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Contact Us

For more information on how Solventum solutions can assist your organization, email 
info.his-mea@solventum.com or visit us online: www.solventum.com

